DBus-Actions - a tray application containing modules listening to dbus events
Copyright (C) 2009 by Stefan Schlott
Published under the GNU Public License V2 (GPL-2)

About

dbus is meant to easily interconnect desktop applications. But sometimes, you
just want some convenience activities in response to some dbus events - but 
there is no simple scripting possibility.
dbus-actions tries to fill this gap. By writing a simple python module, you
can extend dbus-actions with your own custom actions. Some modules for common
applications (new hardware plugged in, dbus message display) are already
included.
dbus-actions shows up on the desktop as single icon in the notification area.
Using a doppeldecker bus as icon seemed obvious (DBus -> Doppeldecker Bus) :-)


Requirements

dbus-actions is written in python/gtk an requires the gtk/gnome python
bindings (pyobject, pygtk, dbus-python, gnome-python, gnome-python-extras).


Running dbus-actions

Without parameters, dbus-actions will start up and activate the modules
last active. If no modules were active, the config dialog will show up. 
"-d" will deactivate all modules (in case a module causes a fsckup, so
you can deactivate it).
"-v" will enable debug messages. 


Writing your own modules

Each module has its own subdirectory - either in the global module directory
(located at /usr/share/dbusactions/modules) or the user's module directory
(at $HOME/.dbusactions).
The subdirectory must contain a __init__.py file; this file must declare
a class called Module, which must be derived from dbusactions.module.Module.
With these requirements met, dbus-actions will find your module and list
it in the config dialog, ready to be enabled.
There are several variables you want to initialize in your own constructor -
please refer to the documentation in dbusactions.module.Module.
The class contains several methods you may want to override: isConfigurable
and configureDialog if your module has a configuration dialog, and of course
dbusSystemEvent/dbusSessionEvent for receiving and handling dbus messages.

The simplest form of a module is probably the test module. It is not included
in the plain source distribution - if you are writing a new module, you should
thinking about contributing it, and in order to do so, you should work on
a local Bazaar branch (see Contributing below).
Try uncommenting one of the inferfaceList assignments in the constructor and
see what's happening.
Both the holux and the hwplug module are examples for capturing a single,
specific message (hardware added, sent by the hal manager interface).
Naturally, the debug module captures and processes all messages. 
 

Contributing

Bug fixes (can't be ;-)? New modules? Additional features?
Great, send them in! This project uses Bazaar for source code management:
  http://bazaar-vcs.org/
The site provides several good tutorials, e.g.:
  http://doc.bazaar-vcs.org/latest/en/mini-tutorial/index.html
The executive summary of how to use this system goes as the following:
- To get a branch to work on - run
  bzr branch http://stefan.ploing.de/bzr/dbus-actions/trunk
- Do your changes; commit your changes (locally, in your branch):
  bzr commit
- If your work takes really long, occasionally pull in changes from
  the trunk
  bzr merge
- Finally, when you are done, create a patch file containing your
  committed changes:
  bzr send -o yourfile.patch
  bzip2 it and mail it to me!


Copyright and contributions

dbus-action was started by Stefan Schlott.

The doppeldecker icon is based on a Flickr picture by franckdethier:
http://flickr.com/photos/picturesbypolo/2374686732/

